AGENT.md, before:

# AGENT.md - Canva Connect Rust Client

## Project Structure
- `public-api.json` - OpenAPI 3.0 specification for Canva Connect API (JSON format for easier searching with `jq`)
- `src/` - Rust client library source code
- `examples/` - Usage examples
- `scripts/` - Development scripts
- `tests/` - Unit and integration tests
- `Cargo.toml` - Rust project configuration

## Build/Test Commands
- `cargo check` - Check code for compilation errors
- `cargo build` - Build the library
- `cargo test` - Run unit tests
- `cargo doc` - Generate documentation
- `cp .env.example .env` - Set up environment configuration
- `cargo run --example asset_upload` - Run asset upload example (needs .env setup)
- `cargo run --example url_asset_upload` - Run URL asset upload example (needs .env setup)
- `cargo run --example user_profile` - Run user profile example (needs .env setup)
- `cargo run --example observability --features observability` - Run observability example with tracing
- `cargo run --example asset_upload -- --token TOKEN --file path/to/file` - Run with CLI args
- `cargo run --example url_asset_upload -- --url "https://rustacean.net/assets/rustacean-flat-happy.png"` - Run with CLI args
- `cargo run --example user_profile -- --token TOKEN` - Run with CLI args

## Integration Tests
Integration tests make real API calls to Canva Connect and require valid credentials:

- `./scripts/integration-tests.sh` - Run all integration tests (loads .env automatically)
- `./scripts/integration-tests.sh test_name` - Run specific integration test
- `CANVA_INTEGRATION_TESTS=1 cargo test --test integration` - Manual method
- `CANVA_INTEGRATION_TESTS=1 cargo test` - Run all tests including integration tests

**Setup for integration tests:**
1. Copy `.env.example` to `.env`: `cp .env.example .env`
2. Add your Canva Connect API access token to `.env`: `CANVA_ACCESS_TOKEN=your-token`
3. Run integration tests: `./scripts/integration-tests.sh`
4. Tests will automatically clean up any assets they create
5. Tests respect rate limits with built-in delays

**Available integration tests:**
- `test_get_user_profile` - Test user profile retrieval
- `test_get_user_capabilities` - Test user capabilities checking
- `test_url_asset_upload_workflow` - Test complete asset upload workflow
- `test_asset_error_handling` - Test asset API error handling
- `test_list_designs` - Test design listing with filters
- `test_create_and_get_design` - Test design creation and retrieval
- `test_create_custom_design` - Test custom dimension design creation
- `test_design_error_handling` - Test design API error handling

## Development Scripts
- `./scripts/setup.sh` - One-time setup script for development environment
- `./scripts/check.sh` - Run all CI checks locally (formatting, clippy, tests, build)
- `./scripts/fix.sh` - Auto-fix formatting and clippy issues
- `./scripts/docs.sh` - Generate Rust documentation (use `--open` to open in browser)
- `./scripts/integration-tests.sh` - Run integration tests with automatic .env loading
- `./scripts/pre-commit.sh` - Pre-commit hook logic (version controlled)
- **Pre-commit hook**: Automatically runs all CI checks before each commit

## Quick Setup
For new developers:
```bash
./scripts/setup.sh  # One-time setup
```

## Local CI Checks
Always run before committing to avoid CI failures:
```bash
./scripts/check.sh  # Run all checks
./scripts/fix.sh    # Auto-fix issues
```

Individual commands:
- `cargo fmt --all` - Format code
- `cargo clippy --all-targets --all-features -- -D warnings` - Lint code
- `cargo test --all-features` - Run all tests
- `cargo build --release` - Build optimized version

## Codebase Structure
- `src/lib.rs` - Main library entry point
- `src/client.rs` - HTTP client implementation with rate limiting
- `src/auth.rs` - OAuth 2.0 authentication flow
- `src/error.rs` - Comprehensive error handling
- `src/models.rs` - Data structures for API responses
- `src/rate_limit.rs` - Rate limiting implementation
- `src/endpoints/` - API endpoint implementations
  - `assets.rs` - Assets API (fully implemented)
  - `designs.rs` - Designs API (fully implemented)
  - `user.rs` - User API (fully implemented)
  - `mod.rs` - Other endpoints (stub implementations)

## Code Style
- Use `async/await` for all API calls
- Return `Result<T, Error>` for fallible operations
- Use `serde` for JSON serialization/deserialization
- Follow Rust naming conventions (snake_case for functions, PascalCase for types)
- Use `#[derive(Debug, Clone)]` for most data structures
- Implement comprehensive error handling with custom error types

## API Specification
The `public-api.json` file contains the complete OpenAPI 3.0 specification for the Canva Connect API. You can search it efficiently using `jq`:

```bash
# Find all endpoint paths
jq '.paths | keys[]' public-api.json

# Find design-related endpoints
jq '.paths | keys[] | select(contains("design"))' public-api.json

# Get schema for a specific model
jq '.components.schemas.Asset' public-api.json

# Find all schemas containing "design"
jq '.components.schemas | keys[] | select(contains("Design"))' public-api.json
```

## API Implementation Status
- ✅ Core client with OAuth 2.0 authentication
- ✅ Rate limiting and error handling
- ✅ Assets API (upload, get, update, delete)
- ✅ Designs API (list, get, create)
- ✅ User API (profile, capabilities, identification)
- ✅ Observability (OpenTelemetry tracing with feature flag)
- ✅ Integration tests with automatic cleanup and rate limiting
- 🚧 Other endpoints (stubs created, need implementation)

## Dependencies
- `reqwest` - HTTP client with async support
- `serde` - JSON serialization
- `tokio` - Async runtime
- `governor` - Rate limiting
- `thiserror` - Error handling macros
- `opentelemetry` - Distributed tracing (optional, with `observability` feature)
- `tracing` - Application-level tracing (optional, with `observability` feature)

Commit message:

Refactor DesignTypeInput to use tagged union pattern
- Convert DesignTypeInput from untagged enum to tagged union with serde
- Remove separate PresetDesignTypeInput and CustomDesignTypeInput structs
- Use enum variants with inline fields for cleaner API
- Update PresetDesignTypeName to match API spec (doc, whiteboard, presentation)
- Fix integration tests to use new tagged union structure
- Update doctests to use new enum structure
- Document tagged union pattern in AGENT.md for future reference

All 8 integration tests now pass. This follows the oneOf pattern from the
Canva Connect API specification and provides a cleaner, more idiomatic
Rust interface.

Amp-Thread: https://ampcode.com/threads/T-2d6e65c1-356a-4250-acd1-46b3e653aa43
Co-authored-by: Amp <amp@ampcode.com>

AGENT.md, after:

# AGENT.md - Canva Connect Rust Client

## Project Structure
- `public-api.json` - OpenAPI 3.0 specification for Canva Connect API (JSON format for easier searching with `jq`)
- `src/` - Rust client library source code
- `examples/` - Usage examples
- `scripts/` - Development scripts
- `tests/` - Unit and integration tests
- `Cargo.toml` - Rust project configuration

## Build/Test Commands
- `cargo check` - Check code for compilation errors
- `cargo build` - Build the library
- `cargo test` - Run unit tests
- `cargo doc` - Generate documentation
- `cp .env.example .env` - Set up environment configuration
- `cargo run --example asset_upload` - Run asset upload example (needs .env setup)
- `cargo run --example url_asset_upload` - Run URL asset upload example (needs .env setup)
- `cargo run --example user_profile` - Run user profile example (needs .env setup)
- `cargo run --example observability --features observability` - Run observability example with tracing
- `cargo run --example asset_upload -- --token TOKEN --file path/to/file` - Run with CLI args
- `cargo run --example url_asset_upload -- --url "https://rustacean.net/assets/rustacean-flat-happy.png"` - Run with CLI args
- `cargo run --example user_profile -- --token TOKEN` - Run with CLI args

## Integration Tests
Integration tests make real API calls to Canva Connect and require valid credentials:

- `./scripts/integration-tests.sh` - Run all integration tests (loads .env automatically)
- `./scripts/integration-tests.sh test_name` - Run specific integration test
- `CANVA_INTEGRATION_TESTS=1 cargo test --test integration` - Manual method
- `CANVA_INTEGRATION_TESTS=1 cargo test` - Run all tests including integration tests

**Setup for integration tests:**
1. Copy `.env.example` to `.env`: `cp .env.example .env`
2. Add your Canva Connect API access token to `.env`: `CANVA_ACCESS_TOKEN=your-token`
3. Run integration tests: `./scripts/integration-tests.sh`
4. Tests will automatically clean up any assets they create
5. Tests respect rate limits with built-in delays

**Available integration tests:**
- `test_get_user_profile` - Test user profile retrieval
- `test_get_user_capabilities` - Test user capabilities checking
- `test_url_asset_upload_workflow` - Test complete asset upload workflow
- `test_asset_error_handling` - Test asset API error handling
- `test_list_designs` - Test design listing with filters
- `test_create_and_get_design` - Test design creation and retrieval
- `test_create_custom_design` - Test custom dimension design creation
- `test_design_error_handling` - Test design API error handling

## Development Scripts
- `./scripts/setup.sh` - One-time setup script for development environment
- `./scripts/check.sh` - Run all CI checks locally (formatting, clippy, tests, build)
- `./scripts/fix.sh` - Auto-fix formatting and clippy issues
- `./scripts/docs.sh` - Generate Rust documentation (use `--open` to open in browser)
- `./scripts/integration-tests.sh` - Run integration tests with automatic .env loading
- `./scripts/pre-commit.sh` - Pre-commit hook logic (version controlled)
- **Pre-commit hook**: Automatically runs all CI checks before each commit

## Quick Setup
For new developers:
```bash
./scripts/setup.sh  # One-time setup
```

## Local CI Checks
Always run before committing to avoid CI failures:
```bash
./scripts/check.sh  # Run all checks
./scripts/fix.sh    # Auto-fix issues
```

Individual commands:
- `cargo fmt --all` - Format code
- `cargo clippy --all-targets --all-features -- -D warnings` - Lint code
- `cargo test --all-features` - Run all tests
- `cargo build --release` - Build optimized version

## Codebase Structure
- `src/lib.rs` - Main library entry point
- `src/client.rs` - HTTP client implementation with rate limiting
- `src/auth.rs` - OAuth 2.0 authentication flow
- `src/error.rs` - Comprehensive error handling
- `src/models.rs` - Data structures for API responses
- `src/rate_limit.rs` - Rate limiting implementation
- `src/endpoints/` - API endpoint implementations
  - `assets.rs` - Assets API (fully implemented)
  - `designs.rs` - Designs API (fully implemented)
  - `user.rs` - User API (fully implemented)
  - `mod.rs` - Other endpoints (stub implementations)

## Code Style
- Use `async/await` for all API calls
- Return `Result<T, Error>` for fallible operations
- Use `serde` for JSON serialization/deserialization
- Follow Rust naming conventions (snake_case for functions, PascalCase for types)
- Use `#[derive(Debug, Clone)]` for most data structures
- Implement comprehensive error handling with custom error types

## API Design Patterns
- **Tagged Unions (oneOf)**: The Canva API uses oneOf patterns with discriminator fields. In Rust, model these as enums with `#[serde(tag = "type", rename_all = "lowercase")]` instead of separate structs with explicit type fields. For example, `DesignTypeInput` is a tagged union with `Preset` and `Custom` variants where serde automatically handles the `type` discriminator field.

## API Specification
The `public-api.json` file contains the complete OpenAPI 3.0 specification for the Canva Connect API. You can search it efficiently using `jq`:

```bash
# Find all endpoint paths
jq '.paths | keys[]' public-api.json

# Find design-related endpoints
jq '.paths | keys[] | select(contains("design"))' public-api.json

# Get schema for a specific model
jq '.components.schemas.Asset' public-api.json

# Find all schemas containing "design"
jq '.components.schemas | keys[] | select(contains("Design"))' public-api.json
```

## API Implementation Status
- ✅ Core client with OAuth 2.0 authentication
- ✅ Rate limiting and error handling
- ✅ Assets API (upload, get, update, delete)
- ✅ Designs API (list, get, create)
- ✅ User API (profile, capabilities, identification)
- ✅ Observability (OpenTelemetry tracing with feature flag)
- ✅ Integration tests with automatic cleanup and rate limiting
- 🚧 Other endpoints (stubs created, need implementation)

## Dependencies
- `reqwest` - HTTP client with async support
- `serde` - JSON serialization
- `tokio` - Async runtime
- `governor` - Rate limiting
- `thiserror` - Error handling macros
- `opentelemetry` - Distributed tracing (optional, with `observability` feature)
- `tracing` - Application-level tracing (optional, with `observability` feature)
